This post explains how to add new Web Service methods from partner, apex and metadata WSDLs that use the Tolerado fixture for error recovery and all other benefits.

= Introduction =

There are many web service methods in each partner, metadata and apex wsdls. So Tolerado haven’t created a method wrapper for each in ToleradoStub, ToleradoMetaStub and ToleradoApexStub. This is intentionally left because inheriting the power of fixture is too simple. 

At very basic to implement a new web service method using Tolerado you have to extend WSRecoverableMethod<R, S extends ToleradoStub>, its an abstract class and expects you to provide implementation of following method. This is explained with examples below.

= New WS Method and WSRecoverableMethod<R, S extends ToleradoStub> = 

WSRecoverableMethod is an Abstract web service method template, extending this class and implementing *protected abstract R invokeActual(S stub) throws Exception;* makes your implementation recoverable and stub caching.

Here is a template of how to extend WSRecoverableMethod 

{{{
// Create a stub from Cached registry for the desired username/pass
ToleradoStub stub = ToleradoStubRegistry.getPartnerStub(new Credential("userName", "password"));

// Create an Java Anonymous class, implementing the WSRecoverableMethod 
// First Generics Type Argument : "R" here is the result of actual web service call from salesforce apache axis stubs.
// Second Generics Type Argument : "ToleradoStub" here is the Tolerado stub, that can be either of ToleradoStub, ToleradoApexStub or ToleradoMetaStub.
WSRecoverableMethod<R, ToleradoStub> wsMethod = new WSRecoverableMethod<R, ToleradoStub>() {
    // This method is the one where the actual Web Service call should be done via
    // Apache axis stubs. 
    @Override
    protected R invokeActual(ToleradoStub stub) throws Exception {
        // use stub to do the actual call here
        // one shouldn't try recovering or do any special exception handling
        // here, as Tolerado fixture will do that transparently
        // Return the web service call result "R"
        return R;
    }
};
// This is must to actually make the web service call. Calling "invoke" method below will trigger the Tolerado recovery and will do the "invokeActual" call transparently.
// Note again "R" should be changed to the actual web service result.
R r = wsMethod.invoke(stub);

}}}



